OpenAI agent ts docs 1934 (#2210)
wandb/docs: weave/guides/integrations/js.mdx

## Usage instructions

TypeScript projects can use either the CommonJS or ESM module system.

> 

Reviewer: Should we include information here about when you should be using one over the other?

Author: No, i believe they are equal citizens. prb just depends on other project dependencies etc

> ### CommonJS

Reviewer: Should this header be more task-based?

> For CommonJS projects, automatic instrumentation works out of the box.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For CommonJS projects, automatic instrumentation works without additional configuration.
```
I think we should try to avoid idioms because they often don't translate well.

> 1. Configure your project for CommonJS.

Reviewer: I feel like we need some introduction to what we're doing, either here or in the intro sentence. This kinda just jumps into the procedure without telling the user what they're about to do.

My suggestion would be:

```suggestion
To configure your Weave project for CommonJS:

1. Create or update your `package.json` file and set its `type` field to `commonjs`:
```
And then nix the next line

   Create or update your `package.json`:

   ```json
   {
     "type": "commonjs"
   }
   ```

>    Create a `tsconfig.json` with CommonJS-compatible settings:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Then create a `tsconfig.json` with CommonJS-compatible settings:
```

Just adding "then" because it sounds kind of awkward without a step number next to it.

   ```json
   {
     "compilerOptions": {
       "module": "CommonJS",
       "target": "es2022",
       "rootDir": ".",
       "outDir": "dist"
     }
   }
   ```

   These settings configure TypeScript to compile for CommonJS:

   - **`module: "CommonJS"`** — Compiles modules to CommonJS format (`require`/`module.exports`).
     For details on this compiler option, see [TypeScript - Module](https://www.typescriptlang.org/tsconfig/#module).

   - **`target: "es2022"`** *(Recommended)* — Emits modern JavaScript compatible with recent Node.js versions.

>      For details on this compiler option, see [TypeScript - Target](https://www.typescriptlang.org/tsconfig/#target).

Reviewer: I would err on the side of caution and define the other two fields, as well.

2. Install Weave and any other required libraries:

   ```bash
   npm install weave
   ```

3. Compile your TypeScript file.

   For an example file `test.ts`:

   ```bash

>    npx tsc

Reviewer: Is this command correct? It doesn't target a file.

Reviewer 2: It should be fine. It targets the CWD, if there is a tsconfig.json, it picks that up.

Author: If the "files" or "include" properties are not specified, it defaults to including all TypeScript files (*.ts, *.tsx) within the directory and its subdirectories.

   ```

   This compiles the file to `dist/test.js`.

4. Run the compiled file with Node.js:

   ```bash
   node dist/test.js
   ```

Because CommonJS uses Node.js's `require` module loader, Weave can automatically instrument supported libraries without requiring the `--import` flag used in ESM projects.

### ESM

To use Weave with an ESM TypeScript project, configure your project for Node.js ESM, compile your code with `tsc`, and start Node.js with the `--import` flag so Weave can register its instrumentation before other modules load.

> 1. Configure your project for ESM.

Reviewer: These two lines (87 and 89) sound like separate instruction steps because they both start with imperative verbs, with the first line missing the information I need.

I understand that you're using these intro fragments as summaries for the entire step, but I would recommend against this because it's not clear to the user that this is a summary upon first read. There are a few different ways to tackle this, but IMO, the easiest way is to just make the sub-step (Creating the `tsconfig.json`) a separate numbered step.

If you feel differently about this, let me know! I'm totally open to having my mind changed 😄

   Create or update your `package.json`:

   ```json
   {
     "type": "module"
   }
   ```

   Create a `tsconfig.json` with Node-compatible ESM settings:

   ```json
   {
     "compilerOptions": {
       "module": "nodenext",
       "moduleResolution": "nodenext",
       "target": "es2022",
       "rootDir": ".",
       "outDir": "dist"
     }
   }
   ```

   These settings configure TypeScript to compile for modern Node.js ESM:

   - **`module: "nodenext"`** — Compiles modules using Node.js ESM semantics.  
     For details on this compiler option, see [TypeScript - Module](https://www.typescriptlang.org/tsconfig/#module).

   - **`moduleResolution: "nodenext"`** — Ensures module resolution follows Node.js ESM rules.  
     For details on this compiler option, see [TypeScript - Module Resolution](https://www.typescriptlang.org/tsconfig/#moduleResolution).

   - **`target: "es2022"`** *(Recommended)* — Emits modern JavaScript compatible with recent Node.js versions.  
     For details on this compiler option, see [TypeScript - Target](https://www.typescriptlang.org/tsconfig/#target).

> 

Reviewer: Same feedback here about documenting the other fields.

2. Install Weave and any other required libraries:

   ```bash
   npm install weave
   ```

3. Compile your TypeScript file.

   For an example file `test.ts`:

   ```bash

>    npx tsc

Reviewer: I'm assuming that because I've seen this twice now, it must be correct 😅

   ```

   This compiles the file to `dist/test.js`.

4. Run the compiled file with Node.js and preload the Weave instrumentation:

   ```bash
   node --import=weave/instrument dist/test.js
   ```

  The `--import` flag ensures the `weave/instrument` module loads before other modules so Weave can automatically instrument supported libraries and integrations.

   Weave must be installed locally in the project you run.

> ### If you're unsure which type of project you have

Reviewer: To me, this is kind of an awkward place to introduce this. Maybe we should put this at the top of the page in a short section that also elaborates on the differences between using Common JS and ESM?

If you run a TypeScript file directly with a tool such as:

```bash
npx tsx test.ts
```

the module system may be determined implicitly by your environment.  

> For consistent behavior, it is recommended to define a `package.json` and `tsconfig.json` explicitly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To ensure consistent behavior, we recommended explicitly defining `package.json` and `tsconfig.json` files.
```
We should own our suggestions.

To determine whether a project uses CommonJS or ESM, check the `type` field in `package.json`:

```json
"type": "module"
```

- If `type` is `"module"`, the project uses **ESM**.

> - If the `type` field is missing or set to `"commonjs"`, the project uses **CommonJS**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If the `type` field is missing or set to `"commonjs"`, the project defaults to using **CommonJS**.
```
total nit. up to you

## Usage instructions

TypeScript projects can use either the CommonJS or ESM module system.

### CommonJS

For CommonJS projects, automatic instrumentation works out of the box.

1. Configure your project for CommonJS.

   Create or update your `package.json`:

   ```json
   {
     "type": "commonjs"
   }
   ```

   Create a `tsconfig.json` with CommonJS-compatible settings:

   ```json
   {
     "compilerOptions": {
       "module": "CommonJS",
       "target": "es2022",
       "verbatimModuleSyntax": false,
       "rootDir": ".",
       "outDir": "dist"
     }
   }
   ```

   These settings configure TypeScript to compile for CommonJS:

   - **`module: "CommonJS"`** — Compiles modules to CommonJS format (`require`/`module.exports`).
     For details on this compiler option, see [TypeScript - Module](https://www.typescriptlang.org/tsconfig/#module).

   - **`target: "es2022"`** *(Recommended)* — Emits modern JavaScript compatible with recent Node.js versions.
     For details on this compiler option, see [TypeScript - Target](https://www.typescriptlang.org/tsconfig/#target).

>    - **`verbatimModuleSyntax: false`** — Allows ESM-style `import`/`export` syntax in source files while emitting CommonJS output.

Reviewer 2: nit: in my opinion, this doesn't seem to be a commonly-seen option. with its default value being `false`, we probably don't need to mention it. So the simpler the user's config is, the better. 

Since tsconfig is such a huge topic, our doc is not the go-to place for every details, as long as we bring something basic that works, we already fulfill our limited liability :)

Just my two cents, and it is a nit-picky comment. I will leave it to your decision.

## Usage instructions

TypeScript projects can use either the CommonJS or ESM module system.

### CommonJS 

For CommonJS projects, no special configuration is required. Automatic patching works out of the box.  

Install Weave:

```bash
npm install weave
```

### ESM 

For ESM projects, use the Node.js `--import` CLI flag to enable auto-instrumentation. The `weave/instrument` module is available as long as the `weave` package is installed.

1. Install Weave:

    ```bash
    npm install weave
    ```

1. Compile your TypeScript file.
For an example file `test.ts`, compile it with:

   ```bash
   npx tsc
   ```
   This assumes your `tsconfig.json` outputs compiled files to a `dist` directory, for example:

   ```json
   {
     "compilerOptions": {

>        "rootDir": ".",

Reviewer 2: Actually, to guarantee that the project is compiled into ESM. I usually have to add this:

```
    "target": "es2022",
    "module": "nodenext",
    "moduleResolution": "nodenext",
```

[References 1](https://www.typescriptlang.org/tsconfig/#target)
[References 2](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/modules/reference.html#the-module-compiler-option)

From my reading, the official doc describes it very fuzzily. (Please correct me if I am wrong) So I guess the default value is undefined and the actual behavior might change according to different versions of tsc.

Author: okay, I'll add more clarification of the setup.

       "outDir": "dist"
     }
   }
   ```
   After compiling, your file will be available as `dist/test.js`.

1. Run the compiled file with the Node.js `--import=weave/instrument` flag:

    ```bash
    node --import=weave/instrument dist/test.js
    ```

Weave must be installed locally in the project you're running.  
    
Because ESM loads modules differently than CommonJS, Weave must be loaded before other modules to enable automatic instrumentation. Using the `import` flag ensures Weave is loaded before other modules so it can [patch](/weave/guides/integrations) them.

### If you're unsure which type of project you have

If you are running a TypeScript file directly with a tool like:
```
npx tsx test.ts
```

> your project may still be using ESM depending on your `package.json` configuration.

Reviewer 2: Thanks for mentioning this. However, I assume that often the case is that people don't have a `package.json` ahead of time but still want to run `npx tsx *`. In this case, is `"type": "module"` still the default case I wonder? 

anyway, we could suggest to our customers that explicitly having a package.json is the best practice.

Author: will do
